Cloud computing is the future. Rapidly, companies are changing from their physical databases and servers to cloud-based computing. This change was helped by many cloud service providers such as AWS releasing their Cloud computing in 2006 and later following Microsoft Cloud-based computing released in 2010. Ever since the release of these two cloud computing giant companies have moved all their data and systems from physical to the Cloud. According to RightsScales’s 2014 cloud technology survey in the article “Cloud Computing Services Are Safe and Likely to Get Safer”, it stated that out of 1,068 organizations that use databases surveyed around 90 percent used cloud computing (Burger 1). It’s 2023 and for 90 percent of companies to use’s cloud-biased computing you can see that cloud-based computing has had a huge impact on businesses. One reason that companies are changing over to cloud-based computing is its power, gone are the days when you have to spend thousands of dollars to set up a large-based system in your company building. Now you can just rent server space using cloud computing. 
But there’s also one big reason why some companies are not using cloud-based computing. That has to do with the security aspect. Because when you use cloud-based computing you use another company’s servers which means they own the server but you rent them. Some companies don’t like this idea because the cloud service company owns the physical server which means they can easily access any data and that’s why companies don’t upload all their data to cloud-based services. Another security concern that companies don’t like is this is a new system of how computing and storage are done and believe that because it’s a new system there are tons of security flaws to start with. Another aspect is that companies that are switched over to cloud-based computing and storage are running into cyber attacks and cyber espionage. But in many situations this may not be true, to combat cloud computing security, the proposal for companies to translate their computing from physical to the cloud should be supported Because it involves the general well-being of citizens and companies. National organizations should mandate universal minimums for cyber-security specifications, including cloud computing, to be followed by all general companies.
	That may seem a stretch of the thesis to go from saying all the security problems and then stating that companies should switch to clouding. But to understand Cloud security, you got to understand where it came from and how it relates to a physical network in a building. The article “Up in a Cloud?” talks about the history of John McCarthy, an Artificial intelligence researcher, thinking about the idea that computing may be used as a public utility (aka the idea of cloud computing) in 1960 before the internet was implemented. The author goes on to continue to talk about cloud computing and described the concept of cloud computing as exactly like that of grid computing which splits up a program into many segments and distributes the process among the cluster of machines. (Sansom 1). Cloud computing eliminates the company’s problems of only having bandwidth on the physically implemented servers in the building, making cloud computing faster because of the bandwidth you can set. But the concept of cloud computing as a grid also helps with security functionality. Gone are the days when you had to send a message to NIST about a network security breach, with cloud-based networks having this grid functionality allows all networks to report security incidents in seconds and update all networks connected to the cloud provider to be updated about the flaw. Allowing all networking connected to the cloud provider to be safe from that similar attack. Also because cloud computing is just like physical computing it is set up the same way it’s just you make a company do all the physical setup for you and all you have to do is rent and pay for the subscription. This means all the security software and all firewall ideas that are with a physical network in a building are also in the cloud provider building it’s just they have all the systems there and you just need to use them. Most of the security flaws that people believe to be true about cloud computing are just misconceptions or uneducated standards that you’ll see later in this essay. But it is best to understand that a Cloud network and a Physical network are the same things when it comes up to setting them up, it’s just Cloud allows you to communicate with many more networks than you would be able to with a physical network because of the physical limitations.
	Though those who oppose the idea of not implementing cloud-based computing into their business argue, multiple factors such as they already have a large-scale physical network in their office that supports their goals. Another reason is that it’s a new type of networking there’s going to be security flaws in anything new. Another reason is that your giving all your data to a system that the cloud provider owns physically and that means they have access to your data with a simple plug-in of a wire. To continue that, certain cloud providers’ software limits what software they can implement and use on the system. The final reason that most state is that there already have been major security flaws and because of that companies don’t want to take the risk. An example of that is, in “Up in a Cloud” director of systems for Johnson & Johnson, Rich Franckowiak said, “We are not willing to compromise on data security for efficiency … but the risk is very much tied to how we implement our solutions”(Sansom qd Franckowiak, pg 2). Some companies just don’t see any data security in cloud services and believe the advantages of efficiency are not worth it to compromise their security.
	Although cloud-based service should be based on what the company’s goals are and the security they want. The advantages of Cloud-based security are huge, in the article “Cloud computing could Minimize Security Threats” the Armed Forces and Electronics Association cyber committee stated, “the same interconnectedness that allows for potential breaches also can also enhance security…the linking of these cloud network also means that various government and industry task forces can share information and coordinate resources to address security issues collaboratively” (Haugen, Musser 1). They believe the ability that cloud networking gives for a network to communicate threats with other networks is the number one way to prevent any security flaw in a system. This is true because the best way to prevent a security flaw is to be aware and cloud networking allows all cloud-based provider’s networks to be aware of the security flaw. There are other reasons that people support cloud services security such as, efficiency, the more efficient the system is the more it can detect security issues or flaws. Another reason why people support cloud computing security is that the future is all in cloud computing and there have never been more security engineers working in the cloud than before working.
	Companies should start excepting cloud-based computing into their network. In this essay, I will describe 3 reasons why companies should become more comfortable with cloud-based computing security. Those reasons are research in security in the cloud, the main advantage of cloud security, and Setting up Security software in cloud computing. 
	The first major reason why companies should move over and trust cloud service security is the research that has occurred to prove that cloud security is trustful and more advance. To also add on future research has also shown the capabilities of cloud security to its max extent. The reason why the research is important in understanding how secure cloud computing is, is research shows the future of the system and what has gone into it to make sure it is trusted. Company’s in IT all are about future-proofing their system and research shows that the cloud will help do that. One of the research that has been done on the cloud was a research of a fault prediction algorithm, these algorithms help the system detect errors in software and help improve accuracy by scanning and alerting the system of flaws or errors. In the academic journal “Improved Accuracy and less fault prediction errors via modified sequential minimal optimization algorithm”, researcher and writer Muhammed Asim Shahid researched a particular prediction algorithm called Modified Sequential Minimal Optimization as known as MSMO. He talked about how the MSMO algorithm can improve accuracy and reduce the number of errors in fault prediction compared to other prediction algorithms. He goes on to conduct his experience using multiple data sets and multiple other prediction algorithms to prove that MSMO is better at predicting errors. In the results MSMO did shows that it was more efficient in the end but he found out that in cloud based system the MSMO algorithm was more efficient in predicting errors and cloud based system also showed fewer errors in falsely predicting too (Muhammed). This research on prediction Algorithms shows that even though they were not focused on cloud-based systems they found out that cloud based systems were more effective than any other. That helps shows the concrete evidence that Cloud systems security should be trusted.
	That is not the only research that has been done in Cloud Computing so far. The future and current research on the advantages of Cloud system security is huge. One idea is, because Cloud Service providers own these big rooms of cloud servers, that means that all the servers in the room have or can communicate with each other and communication is a big factor in making a system secure. In the article “Cloud Computing Could Minimize security threats” by the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association Cyber committee they talked about how this communication of all servers can/is being used to prevent security flaws and attacks from happening. They say, “Cloud servers and their operations are highly visible, meaning that they are easy to monitor, and security managers can amass data quickly from linked networks to respond to threats quickly. The linking of these cloud networks also means that various governmental and industry taskforces can share information and coordinate resources to address security issues collaboratively.” (Armed 1). This means that with this coordination and communication with all the cloud systems they can report to each other the issue to all systems, they can report to each other updates that stop the issue, and they can report to each other any flaws they see in their system. This Reporting means that multiple machines don’t need to be affected by the risk to know what to change. With Cloud computing gone are the days when you have to file a new security concern about your system. Cloud Computing can do it for us and can do It more effectively and efficiently. This means Cloud computing security can be trusted. This Research shows concrete evidence from research on why companies should trust Cloud system security and the advantages of the research too.
	Another reason that helps support why companies should trust cloud-based security, is the clear advantage of cloud security. This does relate to the other reason because the research does show the advantages but other advantages are already out there that can be used by companies right now. One example of the advantages comes from an academic article called, “Computer cyberspace security mechanism supported by cloud computing” by ZeYuan Fu, in this article/research paper ZeYuan is trying to understand flaws in cloud computing security systems. In his introduction, he states, “CC is the hot spot of computer development at present. So far, no attacks specifically targeted CC hosts have been found.” (Zeyuan 2). This is super advantageous for Cloud Computing security because the CC host store all the administrative information and rights. This means the problem that we have with physical system host attacks hasn’t been seen in any Cloud computing attacks. Another advantage that he states in his article is that Cloud security communication of issues is great, “Once a complete problem occurs, these security risks will be quickly spread due to the strong elasticity of CC”(Zeyuan 2). This advantage is super beneficial in a security system because this allows a risk to be communicated and the same thing that I stated in the previous paragraph is that once one risk get found all system get informed and can change to deny and prevent that risk. Zeyuan research mainly focuses on the flaws with cloud computing and he tested cloud computing machines by throwing multiple attacks at it. From that, he found that there were security flaws that Cloud Computing had concluded from these flaws that these were easily preventable by a good setup system. 
That’s going into the final reason why companies should trust cloud system security is that the setup is way more straightforward than ever before in setting up security in a system. Cloud Services have allowed security software and system security setup to be easier than before with physical systems. In “Up in the Cloud” by Clare Sansom, she talks about the advantages and disadvantages of cloud computing but one thing she stated was that downloading and making a service compliant was easier than before. In the article she quotes Jake Sorofman the vice president of rPath, "We package applications with operating systems, middleware, libraries and everything else they need to run so they can be easily deployed to and moved between a variety of cloud and grid-based platforms” (Sansom qd. Sorofman). to also add on to that In another article titled “Companies in the cloud most adapt their security practice”, the interviewee Xichen Zhang said, “that each cloud provider offers a unique suite of tools and capabilities, and it's up to customers to determine which offers the security practices that best meet their unique needs.” (Lindzon qd Zhang). This is a huge advantage because you use your system with a cloud service provider which means that they most of the time include a service for setting up security which means that you can just select and activate security tasks. This means with just a click of a button you can make your Cloud system security even better.
But there have been many problems with the security software that the cloud provider provides. Many companies have found out that when transferring their data, caused their cloud system to be less secure and led them to be attacked.  Other causes are that when want to install a certain security measure the cloud provider’s system can comply with the security measure. This is a huge security problem but it’s starting to be solved with 3’rd party companies. These third-party companies have allowed these works around to integrate your physical system with your cloud system and make sure it is set to your security standards. These companies work with the cloud service provider to help understand the cloud system and find a way to install stuff that a company wants. But overall this is a problem with cloud computing security because you have to go all the way to a third party to configure a cloud service provider system but it can be solved.
Given the numerous reasons why companies should trust cloud-based computing security. Cloud computing is the future and companies need to combat changing to cloud services. Ultimately government should direct companies to start enforcing cloud systems, because of their effect on the security and well-being of people’s data. Based on the research on cloud security, the advantage of cloud security, and the ease of setting up security in cloud computing; shows that the future will be more secure with cloud computing security.
